#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass extbook
\begin_preamble
\let\oldquote\quote
\renewcommand\quote{\small\oldquote}
\let\oldquotation\quotation
\renewcommand\quotation{\small\oldquotation}

\usepackage{tocbibind}

\lefthyphenmin=2
\widowpenalty=10000
\clubpenalty=10000

\newenvironment{changemargin}[2]{%
\begin{list}{}{%
\setlength{\topsep}{0pt}%
\setlength{\leftmargin}{#1}%
\setlength{\rightmargin}{#2}%
\setlength{\listparindent}{\parindent}%
\setlength{\itemindent}{\parindent}%
\setlength{\parsep}{\parskip}%
}%
\item[]}{\end{list}}
\end_preamble
\options nomencl=intoc
\use_default_options false
\begin_modules
longtablepage
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "lmodern" "default"
\font_sans "helvet" "default"
\font_typewriter "courier" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 95 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures false
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine biblatex
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style abbrv
\biblatex_bibstyle alphabetic
\biblatex_citestyle alphabetic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\topmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
\noindent
Acknowledgments
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Acknowledgments}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
A creation does not spawn from a void.
 It is made possible by people who give you the space to create something
 and is build on others who give you inspiration.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset VSpace smallskip
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
Thank you dear Anne for being there.
 For giving me the space to follow my heart.
 It is not always easy when I am absent again, both literally and figuratively.
 Let's not forget to move and celebrate life in a dance.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
Also, my thanks go to our wonderful children who had to miss their father
 too much while writing this work.
 Although I had less time, my love for you is strong as a bear.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
The first steps in life are important for that follows.
 My parents deserve credit for that good start and the self-confidence they
 imparted.
 Thank you for being there and believing in me during this rather extraordinary
 career change.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset VSpace smallskip
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Those who should definitely not be missing are the (trainee) farmers Jonas,
 Nik and Sam from 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

De Wakkere Akker
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 They have made it possible that an experiment with the system of Ferme
 du Bec Hellouin could already happen, albeit on a very small scale.
 This allowed the belief and theory to be tested in practice.
 It gave necessary experience and data that both indicate a hopeful direction.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
\begin_inset VSpace smallskip
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
Many people, without knowing it, contributed to this paper.
 First, the authors of the works I went through.
 Thank you to Meino Smit, Gerald Leach, Steinhart and Steinhart, Amory Lovins
 and so many others.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
Many thanks to Charles & Perrine Hervé-Gruyer for their inspiration, both
 in terms of perseverance, beauty and the sacrifices they make on a personal
 level to introduce everyone to their inspiring system.
 What you have set up is such a strong inspiration, both for today and for
 the future.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
Indirectly, Rob Hopkins also contributed to this body of work by starting
 the Transition movement.
 Especially the positive narrative of his way of working is an inspiration.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
To all the individuals who contributed to create the software that allowed
 me to write this piece, thank you.
 You have selflessly put time into software that can be freely used by everyone.
 The same goes for the people who put the drawings on 
\noun on
freesvg.org
\noun default
 which I gratefully could use to lighten up this work.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
\begin_inset VSpace smallskip
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
Thank you to the group at Landwijzer for providing a fertile ground.
 Everyone contributes in his/her own way to this unique group.
 Special thanks to Evert the fine illustrations of Umbalio's story.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
Lien and Eva, thank you for plowing through the technical work.
 Thanks to your necessary and justified comments, a more accessible text
 has emerged.
 For this more accessible work, the comments of Anne and Koen have proved
 valuable.
\begin_inset VSpace smallskip
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
Finally, I also thank Colruyt for giving me the opportunity to take time
 for the Landwijzer training.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
